📝  (INT-2116):  Update for 3PB Documentation (#13)
fahimmahmoodmir/developers-community: pages/Documents/ConversationalAI/Third-PartyBots/CustomEndpoint/service-implementation.md

Example of the response body that is expected by Third-Party Bots can be seen
in Figure 2.3. Please refer to [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service)
for the latest endpoint contracts/interfaces.

```json
{
  "state": "online",
  "version": "0.0.1"
}
```

Figure 2.3 Example response of Get Bot Bot State endpoint

#### Create Conversation

The conversation will be created for a specific bot in an environment and is addressed
by the LP Conversation ID. Additional context like [SDES](engagement-attributes-types-of-engagement-attributes.html)
and conversation details are provided during the creation of the conversation.
Please note, [SDES](engagement-attributes-types-of-engagement-attributes.html)
attributes are **only** collected at the start of a conversation, and [SDES](engagement-attributes-types-of-engagement-attributes.html)
are **only** collected if the Engagement Attributes configuration is enabled.
This API endpoint is expected to create a conversation resource that can be
addressed on the following [Send Conversation Events](third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-service-implementation.html#send-conversation-events)

> call conversation against a bot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
call.
```
the sentence otherwise doesn't make much sense

      "elements": [
        {
          "type": "map",
          "la": 49.000000000000,
          "lo": 7.111111111111,
          "alt": "49.000000000000, 7.111111111111"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "context": {
    "lpEvent": {
      "sequence": 12,
      "serverTimestamp": 1649332721115,
      "event": {
        "type": "RichContentEvent",
        "content": {
          "type": "vertical",
          "elements": [
            {
              "type": "map",
              "la": 49.000000000000,
              "lo": 7.111111111111,
              "alt": "49.000000000000, 7.111111111111"
            }
          ]
        }
      },
      "conversationId": "608b2868-f686-4b89-891f-497816958cfc",
      "dialogId": "608b2868-f686-4b89-891f-497816958cfc",
      "metadata": [],
      "messageAudience": "ALL"
      // .... RAW LP Content Event properties
    }
  }
}
```

Figure 2.6 Example request body of Rich Content event sent to Send Content Events endpoint

### Authorization and Authentication

Third-Party Bots uses [App-JWT OAuth 2.0](accessing-liveperson-apis.html#oauth-20-app-jwt) authentication
mechanism for a server to server interaction. Third-Party Bots uses the provided

> `Client ID` and `Client Secret` of an App Installation in the vendor configuration to generate bearer tokens.

Reviewer 2: its a JWT

More information on the Sentinel API can be found [here](connector-api-send-api-authorization-and-authentication.html#get-appjwt).

> Third-Party Bots sends the bearer token inside the `Authorization` header on all requests

Reviewer 2: Its not a bearer, but a JWT

to the Custom Endpoint service. The brands need to ensure the request is authorized, e.g.
if the account the token has been generated on is allowed to access the addressed bot

> Custom Endpoint service endpoints.

Reviewer: Maybe.
```suggestion
resources.
```
to make clearer we could be talking just about one bot here in general. Or remove 'bot' if you are trying to imply you are restricting access for the whole service.

---
pagename: Service Implementation
sitesection: Documents
categoryname: "Conversational AI"
documentname: Third-Party Bots
subfoldername: Custom Endpoint
permalink: third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-service-implementation.html
indicator:
---

> ### API Service Specification

Reviewer: The title is a bit miss-leading, you are only describing the general Third-Party bots flow here. It does not hurt to explain this again here I guess but maybe name it differently? "Service Context" e.g.

Author: Will merge this and the bottom comment into one section of overview

The Custom Endpoint vendor of Third Party Bots allows brands to build their API that generates
Bot responses for incoming consumer messages, and connect this to conversations taking place in the
Conversational Cloud. The basic flow of how a consumer message is sent and bot response is received
on an abstract level can be seen in Figure 2.1

<img class="fancyimage" style="width:800px" src="img/customendpoint/message-flow.png">
Figure 2.1 Depicts how a consumer message is sent to Custom Endpoint and a
response is sent back.

<ol>
<li>Consumer Message (CM) is sent to LivePerson Universal Messaging Service (UMS)</li>
<li>CM that was sent to UMS reaches the Third-Party Bot connector</li>
<li>Third-Party Bot connector sends CM to the Custom Endpoint service (i.e `www.mybotapi.com/api` in Figure 2.1) </li>
<li>Custom Endpoint service sends Bot Response (BR) back to the Third-Party Bot connector 
    which parses and validates it</li>
<li>Third-Party Bot connector sends the bot response to the UMS</li>
<li>UMS sends the bot response to the consumer</li>
</ol>

> ### Service Implementation

Reviewer: The structure is not clean here, next section is also a H3 and Service Implementation is already the title of the document as well.
Suggestion move the whole segment to the top of the document and call it 'Overview'

This section will describe the general information on what a Custom Endpoint service
should be implementing to successfully integrate with the Third-Party Bots.
We have provided a public [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service)
that contains the [OpenAPI Specification](https://swagger.io/specification). It provides
detailed information on Request and Response bodies sent or expected by the Third-Party
Bots.

### Service Endpoints

To connect to Third-Party Bots via the Custom Endpoint vendor some service endpoints

> methods must be implemented by brands. Following are the methods defined by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods must be implemented by brands. The following are the methods defined by the
```

[API Specification](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service):

> - Get Bot Environments

Reviewer: Also I would suggest remove the list if you have sections for them afterwards

Author: sure

environment named `draft` in [Vendor Configuration](third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-introduction.html#vendor-configuration).
This endpoint is expected to fetch the list of environments defined for a bot.

**Endpoint**

| HTTP Method | URI                           |
| :---------- | :---------------------------- |
| GET         | /v1/bots/{botId}/environments |

**Path Parameters**

| Parameter | Description                                                                                                                  |
| :-------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| botId     | Bot identifier as defined in [Vendor Configuration](third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-introduction.html#vendor-configuration) |

Example of the response body that is expected by Third-Party Bots can be seen
in Figure 2.2. Please refer to [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service)
for the latest endpoint contracts/interfaces.

```json
["draft", "alpha"]
```

Figure 2.2 Example response of Get Bot Environments endpoint

#### Get Bot State

> A bot can have in Custom Endpoint service following states:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bot on a Custom Endpoint service should have one of the following states:
```

- `online`
- `offline`
- `error`
- `maintenance`

This endpoint is called on test connection and while starting a bot. It should
respond with the bot state and the bot version. Every state besides `online`

> will cause failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is interpreted as a nonhealthy and unreachable bot.
```

| environment | Bot environment as defined in [Vendor Configuration](third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-introduction.html#vendor-configuration) |

Example of the response body that is expected by Third-Party Bots can be seen
in Figure 2.3. Please refer to [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service)
for the latest endpoint contracts/interfaces.

```json
{
  "state": "online",
  "version": "0.0.1"
}
```

Figure 2.3 Example response of Get Bot Bot State endpoint

#### Create Conversation

The conversation will be created for a specific bot in an environment and is addressed
by the LP Conversation ID. Additional context like [SDES](engagement-attributes-types-of-engagement-attributes.html)
and conversation details are provided during the creation of the conversation.
Please note, [SDES](engagement-attributes-types-of-engagement-attributes.html)
attributes are **only** collected at the start of a conversation, and [SDES](engagement-attributes-types-of-engagement-attributes.html)
are **only** collected if the Engagement Attributes configuration is enabled.

> This API endpoint is expected to create a conversation instance for the LivePerson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API endpoint is expected to create a conversation resource that can be addressed on the following 'Send Conversation Events' call
```

in Figure 2.4. Please refer to [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service)
for the latest endpoint contracts/interfaces.

```javascript
{
  "sdes": {
    "authenticatedSdes": {
      // ...... All SDES from Visitor Information API comes here More Info @ https://developers.liveperson.com/visit-information-api-visit-information.html

    },
    "unauthenticatedSdes": {
      // ...... Unauthenticated SDES
    }
  },
  "context": {
    "skillId": "1234567",
    "campaignId": 0987665546,
    "engagementId": 123498765,
    "type": "MESSAGING",
    "visitor": {
      "sharkVisitorId": "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRST",
      "sharkSessionId": "ABcdEFGH12JKLM0iuSTU",
      "ipAddress": "127.0.0.1",
      "browser": "",
      "os": "",
      "osVersion": "",
      "language": "en-US",
      "consumerId": "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwx123456789101112131415mnopqrstuvwxyz0987654321"
    },
    "assignedAgentId": "abc123456-a1b2-34bc-127m-ce1a86c8602a"
   // .... Conversation Context
  }
}
```

Figure 2.4 Example request body of Create Conversation endpoint

#### Send Conversation Events

> An Event describes content sent by a brand's consumer in a conversation. This endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint will receive events on consumer messages and conversation changes.
```

> sends bot responses against the received consumer messages. The expected responses

Reviewer: It is expected to respond with the actions and messages a bot wants to send as a direct response to the event

      "serverTimestamp": 1649332721115,
      "event": {
        "type": "RichContentEvent",
        "content": {
          "type": "vertical",
          "elements": [
            {
              "type": "map",
              "la": 49.000000000000,
              "lo": 7.111111111111,
              "alt": "49.000000000000, 7.111111111111"
            }
          ]
        }
      },
      "conversationId": "608b2868-f686-4b89-891f-497816958cfc",
      "dialogId": "608b2868-f686-4b89-891f-497816958cfc",
      "metadata": [],
      "messageAudience": "ALL"
      // .... RAW LP Content Event properties
    }
  }
}
```

Figure 2.6 Example request body of Rich Content event sent to Send Content Events endpoint

### Authorization and Authentication

Third-Party Bots uses [App-JWT OAuth 2.0](accessing-liveperson-apis.html#oauth-20-app-jwt) authentication
mechanism for a server to server interaction. Third-Party Bots uses the provided
`Client ID` and `Client Secret` of an App Installation in the vendor configuration to generate bearer tokens.
More information on the Sentinel API can be found [here](connector-api-send-api-authorization-and-authentication.html#get-appjwt).

> Third-Party Bots sends the bearer token inside the `Authorization` on all requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third-Party Bots sends the bearer token inside the `Authorization` header on all requests
```

to the Custom Endpoint service. The brands need to ensure the request is authorized, e.g.

> if the account the request is coming from is allowed to access the addressed bot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if the account the token has been generated on is allowed to access the addressed bot
```

will be made by the Third-Party Bots.

{: .important}
Please note brands needs to store information/session about the Conversation and Bot on their Custom Endpoint
service so that information can be used in subsequent calls.

- Test Connection
- Consumer Message

#### Test Connection

Test connection flow is executed in two different scenarios:

- When a user while creating a Custom Endpoint Bot uses the feature of Test Connection
- When a user starts a bot and Third-Party Bots verifies the connection to the Custom Endpoint service

In both scenarios Figure 2.7 shows the sequence of interactions with the involved services
service is called

{: .important}
More information on the Request body and Responses expected by or received from the Custom Endpoint service are available
in [API Service Specification](https://github.com/LivePersonInc/third-party-bots-custom-endpoint-reference-service)

<img class="fancyimage" src="img/customendpoint/test-connection-flow.png">
Figure 2.7 showing the happy test connection flow

1. Test Connection Caller calls the Third-party Bots

> 2. Third-Party Bots gets Sentinel Bearer by using the credentials provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Third-Party Bots gets Sentinel bearer token by using the credentials provided
```
